Joel Spolsky:

Interestingly, when Jeff and I started Stack
Overflow, we didn't really care if it was
business and we didn't need it to be a 
profitable success. We created it BECAUSE
THE INTERNET SUCKED FOR PROGRAMMERS (WITHOUT
STACKOVERFLOW) and we needed to make it
better. 

We thought the job listings would
pay the bills (learn how that works), and
we'd fix the internet (for developers)[sic],
and that was all we cared about and it's what
motivated us to work so hard.

Of course, it turned out a lot bigger than we
thought it would. The company today has 250
employees, is profitable, and has made it
possible for millions of people to learn how
to code and to deal with the new, 
super-complicated world of APIs and frameworks
that we live in. But we just wanted to fix the
internet (for developers).

Joel Spolsky says:

"I have met a lot of people who started businesses
[just] (sic) because they wanted to started a 
business. Paul Graham calls this "Playing House."
And they didn't really care what the business did;
they just wanted to "be entrepeneurs." (PRIDE).
Which is weird, because being an entrepeneur 
really care what the business did; they just wanted
to "be entrepeneurs." Which is weird, because
being an entrepeneur really sucks. 

(NOTE: Joel Spolsky is the founder of Stack 
Overflow and Fog
Creek Software, so he knows what he is talking
about.) "It is really hard to get through all the
extroardinary difficulty, pain, and stress of
starting a company if you're not super, super 
motivated to solve a probem for the world.
NOTE: Joel Spolsky is more motivated than you,
whatever principle you base your decision to make
a startup, it better have an insane white hot 
desire to it.

The entrepeneurs who succeed do so because it is
incredibly important to them for a thing to exist
in the world, and it does not yet exist, so they
work like crazy until it does.

Joel Spolsky says when we started Stack Overflow
we did not expect it to be a big business; we just
wanted there to be someplace where developers
could get help to daily problems, while showing
off how smart they were helping other developers.


