Fixing Venture Capital

A lot of investments in dotcoms turned
out to be flameouts. As a result, VCs
are becoming ever more selective about
where to put their money. To get funded
these days, it's not enough to be a pet
shotp on the web. Nope! You have to be a
pet shop on the web with 802.11b wireless
hotspots, your business plan is going right
in the dumpster.

The formerly secretive world of VC has
become a bit more transparent, of late.
VCs like Joi Ito, Andrew Anker, David Hornik,
and Naval Ravikant have created weblogs which
are a great source of insight into their 
thought process.

But Joel Spolsky says as he reads those books,
he can't hellp but think that there's something
wrong with the VC model as it exists today.
Almost every page of these books makes me say, 
"yep, that's why Fog Creek doesn't want venture
capital." 

There are certain fundamental 
assumptions about doing business in the VC world
that make venture capital a bad fit with
entrepreneurship. And since it's the entrepeneurs
who create the businesses that the VC's fund, this
is a major problem.

So Joel Spolsky states without apology that he
NEVER LOOKED AT SEEKING VENTURE CAPITAL for his
startup Fog Creek Software.

VCs do not have goals that are aligned with the
goals of the company founders. 

A financial comparision of the goals between that
of a VC and a founder:

Many software companies these days are built using 
some form of venture capital. But the VC industry 
has been hurting lately. A lot of investments in 
dotcoms turned out to be spectacular flameouts. 
As a result, VCs are becoming ever more selective 
about where to put their money. To get funded 
these days, it’s not enough to be a pet shop on 
the web. Nope! You have to be a pet shop on the 
web with 802.11b wireless hotspots, or your 
business plan is going right in the dumpster.

Picture of Street Musicians in New Orleans
The formerly secretive world of VC has become 
a bit more transparent, of late. VCs like Joi 
Ito, Andrew Anker, David Hornik, and Naval 
Ravikant have created weblogs which are a 
great source of insight into their thought 
process. 

That dotcom thing resulted in three 
great books by company founders that look deep 
inside the process of early stage financing 
(see footnote). But as I read this stuff, as 
a founder of a company, I can’t help but think 
that there’s something wrong with the VC model 
as it exists today. Almost every page of these 
books makes me say, “yep, that’s why Fog Creek 
doesn’t want venture capital.” 

There are certain 
fundamental assumptions about doing business in 
the VC world that make venture capital a bad fit 
with entrepreneurship. And since it’s the 
entrepreneurs who create the businesses that the 
VCs fund, this is a major problem. Here’s my 
perspective on that, from a company founder’s 
point of view.

When people ask me if they should seek venture capital for their software startups, I usually say no. At Fog Creek Software, we have never looked for venture capital. Here’s why.

The fundamental reason is that VCs do not have goals that are aligned with the goals of the company founders. This creates a built-in source of stress in the relationship. Specifically, founders would prefer reasonable success with high probability, while VCs are looking for fantastic hit-it-out-of-the-ballpark success with low probability. A VC fund will invest in a lot of startups. They expect about seven of them to fail, two of them to trudge along, and one of them to be The Next Netscape (“TNN”). It’s OK if seven fail, because the terms of the deal will be structured so that TNN makes them enough money to make up for all the losers.

Although the real spreadsheets are many megabytes long and quite detailed, this is the VC’s calculation:

A	Probability of Success	10%
B	How rich I would get	$1,000,000,000
C	Expected Return (A x B)	$100,000,000

But founders are much more conservative than that. 
They are not going to start ten companies in their 
lifetime, they’re going to start, maybe, two. 
A founder might prefer the following model:

A	Probability of Success	80%
B	How rich I would get	$100,000,000
C	Expected Return (A x B)	$80,000,000

See, VCs play cards with probability, wheras
founders are interested in making their company
THE KING Company that tops everyone else in
generating revenue.

"Founders would prefer reasonable success with high
probability, while VCs are looking for fantastic
hit-it-out-of-the-ballpark success with low 
probability. VCs are willing to take a more of the
lottery hit out of this." 

"With saying, VCs invest in a lot of startups. They
expect about seven of them to fail, two of them to
trudge along, and one of them to be The Next
Netscape"

This is why Paul Graham argued in his essays that
fundraising is NOT A RELIABLE INDICATOR OF A
STARTUP'S SUCCESS PROBABILITY. It's the growth in
revenue.

