Schleps: a tedious, unpleasant task

Hackers hate these. (Me too). 

An inevitable reality for startup founders, 
though.

PG found this out the hard way when he tried
to make a company just by writing code. Not 
only are they inevitable, but this is what
business consists of.

Schleps should be dealt with the way you jump 
in a cold swimming pool: just jump in. Don't 
shy away from boring, tedious work if it be
a must.

The most dangerous thing about our dislike of
schleps is that much of it is unconscious. 

Your unconscious will not let you see ideas 
that involve painful schelps. That's schlep 
blindness.

Here's a story:

Every hacker who ever had to process online
payments knew how painful the experience was.

So did thousands of others.

Yet, when they started startups, they decided
to build a recipe sites, or aggregators for
local events.

To the hackers, they would not bother to work
on the problems few enjoy and no one will pay
for. Yet, we have Paypal today and its doing
great as business, right? Schlep blindness
prevented people from even considering the 
idea of fixing payments.

The idea of fixing online payments was right
there in plain sight, they never saw it,
because their unconscious mind shrank from
the complications involved.

You would have to make deals with banks.
You are moving money, so you will endure
fraud scandals...and people hacking into your
servers. And a bunch of other bureaucratic
regulations. It's a big fat pain in the a**
to try an ambitious idea like this.

Stripe software actually solved this problem!

The scariness makes ambitious ideas doubly
valuable. They are like undervalued stocks
in the sense that there is less demand for 
them among founders. But this does not mean
users would end up the loving the product
that it would be high in demand by them.

The best antidote to schlep blindness is
probably ignorance. Most successful founders
would probably say that if they known when
they were starting their company with the 
obstacles they had to overcome, they might
not have ever done it. Perhaps that is why
most startups have young people.

The founders GROW WITH THE PROBLEMS. Yet no
one seems to be able to foresee that. Not 
even older, more experienced founders. They
don't know how much they can grow, but they
also do not know how much they will need to.
Older founders only make the first mistake.

DISCLAIMER: Ignorance cannot solve everything.
Some ideas so obviously entail alarming
schleps that anyone can see them. How do you
see ideas like that? The trick I recommend
is to take yourself out of the picture.

[Instead of asking "What problem should I 
solve?" ask "What problem do I wish someone
else would solve FOR ME?"]

If someone who had to process payments before
Stripe had tried asking that, Stripe would 
have been one of the first things they wished
for.

